I spent the last 4 years mastering
e-commerce email marketing and I've
generated $40 million in the process
just to lead up to this point where I'm
going to spend 5 minutes showing you
everything you need to know on how to
scale e-commerce brands of any Niche
through the email Channel no fluff we're
getting straight into it first let's
talk about email setup now this is a lot
easier than you think just use clavio
don't use any other platform it doesn't
matter your size it's the best in the
game it's not even close if you want to
achieve any sort of scale at all clavio
is the only option just look it up on
Google sign up up it literally takes
just like 2 minutes now there are four
main pillars of email marketing that we
need to break down there are popup forms
flows email campaigns and segmentation
first let's talk about pop-up forms you
need forms you need popup forms to grow
your email list it's going to be really
hard for people to join your list if you
don't have a popup and you're really
just making a bad financial move if you
don't have this set up a good form will
convert at least 6% of your website
visitors into email subscribers this is
so important to nail your forms cuz
forms are going to get more out of your
ad traffic that you're spending so much
to chire and allow you to get people's
email addresses and convert them over
email if they otherwise wouldn't have
purchased on the first time they visit
your site don't skip out on forms just
take time creating a good one that isn't
intrusive for the customer so right
inside of clavo you can go to signup
forms right here and you can create your
forms right on your site you can use
some other outside platforms if you
really want to get Advanced I'd
recommend amped or Alia but clavio forms
are just fine so let's quickly walk
through it we can create form and go off
of any of their templates what I found
with forms is we want them as simple as
possible and make it as easy as possible
for the customer to sign up something
like this is going to have a large image
and take a long time to load for the
customer it's going to hurt your
conversions typically I like to start
off with just this template so if we
click on we can name it and apply
whatever list we want and then create
form so you can simply click on here and
make whatever edits that you want just
right inside of here some quick tips you
don't want to say continue in the first
button cuz somebody knows they're going
to have to enter their SMS so we just
want to start off with like claim now
and then a wording that I've seen work
really well for your popup forms is
saying you've got this discount this
makes the customer feel like they
already have the discount and by closing
out of this form they're losing it so we
can do this I like to delete any other
copy people know what they're getting on
an email list you can literally do
something as simple as this throw the
logo on top adjust the SMS copy and
you're pretty much good to go here's an
example of what a good form might look
like super clear what the offer is claim
10% off and then unlock 10% you can see
they don't put the X in the corner it's
actually you can't see it and then you
make people actually choose unlock my
discount or say no thanks as far as
targeting we're going to want to set
some sort of time delay I like to do
based on rules over here and then show
for something after like a 6sec time
delay is what I found to be optimal okay
now we have our pop-up forums and we're
able to grow our list now let's talk
about our email flows flows are a series
of emails which you can set up and have
them fire automatically after a customer
does a specific action such as if
somebody abandons their cart or if
somebody joins your email list you can
send them targeted emails these allow
you to automate some of your revenue and
also create personalized content towards
customers based on where they're at in
their Journey the key flows that you
want to make sure that you have set up
are the welcome flow when somebody joins
your list the site abandoned flow if
somebody goes to your website and then
leaves the browse abandoned flow if
views a product and then leaves the cart
abandoned flow if someone goes to your
site and adds an item to cart and then
leaves the checkout abandoned flow if
somebody actually goes to check out and
then leaves and then also the post
purchase flow you're going to want
specific content for each I recommend
having at a minimum 2 to four emails in
each one of these flows to overcome
objections with around a 1 to 3 day time
delay in between each email but here's
how you can set up your flows inside of
clavio so again inside of clavio we can
go to flows here and you can see like
kind of like the flows we have live for
this account then you can see the time
delay but all you need to do to create
flows is you go to create flow up at the
top corner here and then they actually
have a ton of templates already set up
for you so I'm actually going to choose
the Shopify integration and then I can
see all these different triggers that
they have so you can see like some of
the flows that I mentioned before the
card abandoned flow and the browse
abandoned flow then if you scroll down
you can have like the welcome series
when somebody joins the list and then
leaves and things like first purchase
thank you for this we can just go with
the first abandoned cart this is a very
important flow I can do this and kind of
just create flow and it's going to give
me the template so this is what the flow
looks like inside of clavio you have the
different emails you have a conditional
split here which is a little bit
Advanced seeing if somebody can receive
SMS or not and then you have time delays
and then you have like this other email
and then most important you have the
trigger up at the top so if you go to
the trigger you can see that this flow
is going to fire for anybody who
triggers the checkout started metric
which is going to be set up if you
integrate with Shopify and then you can
have filters so you can see profile
filters here placed order zero times
since starting this flow so when anybody
is about to receive any sort of email in
this flow it's going to check that these
people meet these filter requirements
cuz if somebody places an order since
starting this flow we don't want them to
receive these emails being like hey go
recover your cart if they placed an
order they already bought their cart and
then also just prevent people from being
in this flow too much hasn't received
this flow in the last s days so that's
perfect you can have your time delays
and then if you click onto the email you
can actually see the subject line
preview text then also the creatives
where you can edit some of the copy and
design similar to pop-up forms you can
just edit everything right inside of
here super easy to edit the text add
buttons whatever you may need you can
drag and drop and for some emails and
flows you're going to have Dynamic
content now the next pillar of email
marketing which is slightly different
are your email campaigns campaigns are
probably the typical emails you think of
these are the emails you're sending at
one time to a certain part of the list
on specific dates so things like product
launches or sale email if I wanted to
launch a 24-hour sale email I'm just
going to create my sale email click Send
and send it to everybody on my list
campaigns are really important for
keeping your list engaged over time and
also getting consistent Revenue you want
to stay consistent so you're staying
top- of mind with your customer base all
sorts of different ads on social media
and they're also receiving emails from
other brands and you don't want to get
lost in in the mix the top brands are
sending 3 to four emails per week
roughly every other day at minimum you
want to make sure that you're sending
two times per week or else you're
engagement and your revenue is going to
fall off a cliff now you're going to
annoy your list if all you're sending is
sale sale sale buy my stuff buy my stuff
so you want to make sure that you're
sending value to your email list things
like these are the top 10 tips for this
or here's how to use this or blog post
whatever you can do to engage with your
list and bring them value and build up
Goodwill here's a list of 29 value based
email campaigns that you can send to
your list you can save this or
screenshot it whatever you need to do
but these are really the only types of
emails that you need to send and if
you're going to do sales and whatnot I'd
recommend only one or two every month
other than that just focus on these
emails and you're going to build up a
passionate fan base here's how you can
build simple email campaigns inside of
clavio so we just want to go to the
campaign section up here very similar to
flows we can just create a campaign you
can click continue move on to clicking
our list now we're going to talk about
list and segments in the next pillar but
I can just say we want to send to our on
buyers and our buyers who are engaged in
the last 120 days and so you move on to
subject line preview text sender name
and send her email so you can say buy
our stuff whatever you're doing for your
subject line blah blah blah blah for
your preview text and then you can go to
their templates you can create a blank
email or use their template library
right here you can see there's stuff
that you can start out with we can go
through and maybe let's just click this
one for this example and just like with
flows you have this editor right here
where you can drag and drop and replace
everything that you need or you can even
start from nothing you can delete all
this and do whatever you want to do just
by dragging and drop different text
boxes such as adding a headline right
here then maybe you add an image
underneath and then maybe under that you
want to add a button with a link that
goes to your site which you can click
shop now and then link address go to
your website now this template's kind of
throwing things off so I'd recommend
starting with a blank template and you
can even adjust and look at how it looks
like on mobile and then when you're
ready to send your campaign say we're
good to go you can just click next check
your details and send this email off or
schedule it that simple now the last
pillar of email marketing I want to talk
about is your segmentation segmentation
is how you organize your email profiles
and it's who you can send emails to
segmentation gets a lot of buzz but it's
actually really really simple you can do
all sorts of things with segmentation
pretty much any data that you have on
the customer based on how often they
purchased how often they're opening
emails what their activity on your
website is what their interests are you
can find all these users with your
segments but for my 7 and8 figureure
brands that we work with we typically
just send to our engaged email list just
anybody who's interacted with our emails
over like a 60 to 90day period we don't
want to blast emails to everybody on our
list because your list is going to be
full of fake profiles dead profiles who
aren't opening any emails and people who
just aren't interested anymore and if
you send to everybody then you're going
to hurt your open rates as less people
are opening your emails and inbox
providers like Gmail are going to see
that not a lot of people are opening
your emails and you're more likely to
land in this spam folder so this is the
key segment that really is all you need
go inside of clavio and then go over to
your audience and then lists and
segments and then we can create a new
segment and then name it base engaged
what we want to do is we want just want
to do what somebody has done and then we
can just say opened email at least once
in the last 60 days and then we can add
something else rather than or we're
going to say and somebody's open email
and someone can or cannot receive Market
Mar they can receive email marketing
because they're subscribed so just like
that that's what you can do you can get
even more fancy by doing things like if
somebody's placed an order before such
as what somebody has done we can find
the placed order Shopify metric you can
say like at least once and then change
it overall time but that's really not
necessary I urge you just to send
campaigns broadly to your engage list
then you can create segment and then
it's going to calculate how many people
actually qualify for this that's
everything you need to know about email
marketing condensed in as short of a
time frame as possible now under 10
minutes just is not enough time to give
you everything you need to know about
email marketing so that's why I created
this 2hour free course on email
marketing that you can watch just by
clicking here it's super in depth and I
go step by step on how I've used this to
scale 7 and8 figure e-commerce brands
from revenues to 250k a month to over a
million dollar a month check out that
video and I will see you in the next one